The Cape Town Festival of Beer once again takes place from 30 November to 2 December 2018. This annual event is hosted at Hamilton’s Rugby Club in Green Point. In its 9th year, the Festival delivers the ultimate beer experience and is the largest festival of commercially available beer in the southern hemisphere. It’s the perfect event for those wanting a fun day out, a tasting experience or a food overload. For the beer lovers, the beer aficionados and the newbies, the range of cider and beers available is unparalleled in South Africa. Along with the promise of an exceptional selection of beer and cider, there is also live music and kids entertainment throughout the weekend. Perfect for the whole family! If you’re after a blueberry cider, a blonde, an amber ale, or a pilsner – then the Cape Town Festival of Beer 2018 is where you can find the most comprehensive assortment of brews and fermented beverages around. The Festival features over 60 breweries and distributors and offers more than 200 beers ranging from international mega-breweries such as Stella Artois to local microbreweries such as Drifter, Saggy Stone, Little Wolf and Urban Brewing. Look out for some of the special brews on offer: 2017 saw over a dozen limited edition brews launched at the Festival, there will no doubt be even more in 2018. Martin Tucker, founder of The Cape Town Festival of Beer explains, “Right now brewers are hard at work preparing special brews that have never been tasted before and will be launched at the Festival. We are seeing a new emergence in the market of sour beers, such as Frasers Folly’s Wild Raspberry and the Devil’s Peak Takes Two to Mango (one of last year’s CTFOB’s winners). Sour flavours are becoming more and more popular as are the use of adjuncts like beetroot, pineapple and even coffee and chocolate which are being added to brews for an interesting and more flavourful experience. It’s certainly clear that since the beginning, the Festival has been an incredible platform for showcasing cutting edge beer trends and this year we expect to see a growth in collab brews. A collab brew is when two breweries team up together to develop a special variant on a style to take to market. There is a lot to see this year and we are really excited to be the springboard for new and upcoming breweries and their beers.” Cider enthusiasts will also be happy to know that there is a great selection on show. This was introduced in 2015 and became very popular with festival goers who not only enjoy their hops but their fruit too. To compliment the savouring of incredible beer, The Cape Town Festival of Beer offers an array of top-class pop-up restaurants and gourmet food trucks. You will be able to find eateries such as Kitchen Cowboys, Love Pizza, and Dos Chidos. The Festival has ample seating and casual picnic style areas where festival goers can relax in front of the large stage and listen to jazz and local live bands. For those who like to party a little later in to the evening, they can look forward to the best line up of local DJ’s and musicians to groove until closing time. Tickets available via webtickets Read more articles