A Cape Town heritage musical production Satin to Sequins – More than a Minstrel will be back by popular demand at The Baxter from 6 – 24 November 2018. The show will include brand new songs, some favourite classics and an exceptional cast, accompanied by a live band who make up The Woodstock Darlings – a fictional minstrel troupe. Satin to Sequins – More than a Musical is written by Riyaad Peters, while award winning personalities, Alistair Izobell will direct and is also the music director with Zakhele Nkosi as choreographer. In his illustrious career of three decades or so – Izobell (43) who started off as child star in Kramer-Petersen musicals – has embraced his Kaapse heritage. For More Than A Minstrel, Izobell and Peters have written new songs and a new narrative for the show. The original show was launched as a theatre show in 2014 at the Joseph Stone in Athlone, brainchild of Riyaad Peters of Oddball Concepts who wrote the script and produced the show, in collaboration with Loukmaan Adams. In addition to the music and dance, a strong narrative line has always been key to Satin to Sequins. The producers wanted to emystify minstrel culture and give audiences insights into the creativity of contemporary troupes – and the vibrant living heritage that plays out in the streets of Cape Town. Now, with the 4th edition: Satin To Sequins – More Than A Minstrel – there is a thrilling overlap of art and life. New Year festivities are only one part of Cape minstrel culture. Troupes rehearse throughout the year. It’s a competitive – and diverse community- accountants, lawyers, bank clerks. Most troupe members have day jobs. Others work in the arts industry.
There is no remuneration – only ‘bragging rights’. The uniting factor is the love of donning the fabulous costumes – satins and sequins, bling – literally climbing into another persona and becoming a minstrel, and brings joy to crowds. Minstrels may be traced back in many directions. One line is when slaves dressed up – during New Year festivities – mocking their masters – and affirming themselves as individuals. In 2018 and beyond, an energetic young generation is taking this inimitable form of street theatre/culture forward. For more information visit www.webtickets.co.za