You’ve gotta love Cape Town in the summer – inundated with holiday makers charged with this unbridled desire to shop, suntan and saunter the malls. You’ve also gotta be grateful for those magical destination portholes that let you escape the buzz of the city. You know, that place where the sun stalls time and the days seem to last forever. Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate is the perfect example where you can spend the whole day having fun or simply enjoy the well-deserved luxuries of excellent food and wine. This stellar destination has grown to become a huge attraction for families and friends seeking a unique experience. To make sure you have a holiday to remember, Benguela Cove has put together a fun-filled program to keep all entertained, whether it be with a round of adventure golf, vineyard or cellar tour or bespoke food and wine tastings. Benguela Cove Festive Season Calendar 2018 Cole Porter musical and lunch: Relive the timeless charm of this 1940’s musical legend on 24th November with a musical and light lunch in support of the Hermanus Night Shelter. November Wednesdays: Enjoy Benguela Cove wine with gourmet pizza. November Sundays: End your week with a pairing of rosé, live Jazz and chocolate cake.
The Tea Terrace: Attention tea lovers, they are opening an English style tea saloon. Bubbly is a girls’ best friend: Benguela Cove is launching their new MCC sparkling wine on 8 December. Wear something sparkling for a bubbly affair. Santa’s Grotto: Be sure to bring the little ones to meet Santa on 1 to 9 December. Carols by candlelight: Join in on the tradition of singing carols under the stars on 12 December. Christmas Eve: Guests can expect an innovative menu at the Moody Lagoon Restaurant with a hint of nostalgia. Christmas Lunch Carvery: A true family feast, complete with freshly, delicacies like fennel cured salmon gravlax and a traditional carvery to follow. Rooftop Beach Bar: Who doesn’t love cocktails at sunset? Boxing Day Lagoon Blues: There is always another reason to enjoy good food and wine, this time to the rhythm of moody blues. New Year’s Eve Party: Wrap up the year in style as the sun sets over their magical surrounds. Dance the night away while enjoying delicious platters and canapes.
New Year’s Brunch: Fulfil your first new year’s resolution and start 2019 on a high and delicious note. Bookings essential: +27 (0) 87 357 0637 | Email: dine@benguelacove.co.za For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za Read more articles