Gansbaai (which includes Kleinbaai and De Kelders), is just over 2-hours’ drive from Cape Town and about half an hour from Hermanus. It is situated on Walker Bay at the foot of the Dynefontein Mountains with a magnificent coastline rich in fynbos vegetation. The close proximity to Hermanus makes the village a popular place for permanent residents who can enjoy the unspoilt surrounds, yet be close enough to the facilities on offer in Hermanus including the big new regional shopping mall, private school and more. According to Marlene Uys, Seeff Gansbaai agent, the town is world-renowned as one of the best whale watching hot spots and it is here where you can enjoy shark-cage diving and spot the magnificent Great White Shark – both activities which attract visitors from across the world. The entire Walker Bay area, between Gansbaai and Hermanus, is a whale sanctuary and the gentle giants of the southern ocean, the Southern Right Whale, can be sighted within metres of the shoreline where they come annually to mate and calve. These whales spend the summer feeding around Antarctica and then migrate thousands of miles to our waters, where sheltered bays, such as Gansbaai and nearby De Kelders offer the perfect refuge. The spectacular cliffs of De Kelders with its luxurious on-the-rocks beach houses tend to attract wealthy buyers while the town itself offers property to suit every budget, she says. There are stretches of white sandy beaches that abound in the Pearly Beach area, and the village itself has two harbours where fishing trawlers come and go daily. Other attractions include Shark Alley, an abundance of seals and the Penguin colony of Dyer Island.
The area is located in the heart of the Cape Fynbos Biome and is surrounded by beautiful stretches of unspoilt Cape fynbos. Another attraction is the world-famous and much photographed Danger Point Light House which dates from 1895 and has never stopped working, says Ms Uys. Gansbaai is a little coastal town with plenty of facilities and amenities including a shopping centre and a wide range of services to meet the needs of residents. As a tourist hot spot, there are plenty of little cafés, eateries and pubs and of course a host of tourist attractions.
The town continues to experience a steady flow of property enquiries and has seen consistent sales volumes over many years as Seeff’s agents believe that coastal properties still offer excellent value and long-term investment potential. Aside from local residents, the area is very attractive to holiday home and retirement buyers. Read more articles