The annual Cape Town Homemakers Expo, on from 30 August to 2 September 2018 at the CTICC, is the Western Cape’s most trusted exhibition for everything décor, design, lifestyle and DIY – for real homes. Whether your interest is in what’s trending in home improvement, enhancing your outdoor living space, refreshing your interiors or creating a beautiful kitchen or bathroom, we bring the best industry experts together under one roof. Packed with inspirational ideas and features, including highlights such as the tuis | home theatre, Interior spaces, d’VINE life, truly Artisan, Tafelberg AV Emporium, WODC Concrete Workshop, for the love of Concrete Design and Art Competitions, and The Concrete Shop. The Expo will offer everything your heart desires for your home and garden projects. The tuis | home theatre will be back in action. Watch the tuis | home experts as they present hands-on DIY, home makeover and foodie workshops… your practical guide to beautiful living. The interior spaces feature area will show how trendsetting interior gurus create their ultimate space – showing off bespoke décor, fabrics and cutting edge design.
One of visitors’ favourites – d’VINE life – where local is lekker, will again be the place for avid foodies to taste artisanal gourmet treats, find out more about the latest food fads, the best wines the Cape has to offer, as well as handcrafted beer and gins. A collection of functional and decorative handcraft in truly Artisan – skillfully made by local artisans – will range from homeware, ceramics and leather goods to design, art and custom jewellery. Experience a whole new world in the very latest Audio and Visual technology at the Tafelberg AV Emporium, showcasing the best in digital infotainment and appliances.
The WODC Concrete Workshop is a new addition to the Expo, offering a creative space for craftsmen, makers and designers to engage with visitors and demonstrate the many uses of concrete. The Concrete Shop will offer one-of-a-kind whimsical and witty concrete products, from dipped décor accessories to bespoke garden ornaments. All products will be sold in aid of DARG (Domestic Animal Rescue Group). Says Sandy Edwards, Homemakers Expo Organiser – Cape Town: “Regardless of your age, type of home, requirements or dreams, we’ll have it all at the show. Whether a shopper, inspiration seeker or DIY enthusiast, it’s all about real homes for real people!” Tickets are available at the door or from www.quicket.co.za Read more articles