Sitari Country Estate just outside Somerset West is ranked amongst the top 2 fastest selling large-scale estates in the Western Cape, with close to 900 sales achieved in the last 47 months, totalling just shy of R 1.2bn. Says Claudius Combrinck, Executive Director of Uvest Property Sales: “Sitari is growing rapidly which is reflected in the growing sales, which now average 19 a month. We have close to 3000 contractors on site every day, with 8 different apartment schemes and more than 80 homes currently under construction. With 142 homes and 177 sectional title units already occupied, we have around 700 people now living in Sitari.  Sales are also boosted by the fact that Sitari’s property portfolio caters for a wide range of buyers, investors as well prospective permanent residents. Apartments are classified into a luxury or premium category and there are currently 6 apartment schemes to choose from. All of the schemes offer a very high degree of interior specification, with appliances by either Miele or Smeg.” Combrinck describes how a unique plot and plan concept – The Residences – has been developed by Uvest Property Group to provide even more purchaser flexibility and attractive pricing options. “The buyer can select their ideal spot from over 50 plots and then choose from what we have identified since inception of the estate as the top 6 plans, as designed by highly regarded architectural firm BPAS. This means that the buyer has none of the hassle of having to decide which architect to use, or of trying to have plans drawn up and going through lengthy approvals. “Our buyers will have the opportunity to imprint their own personal tastes and get a clear indication of what their homes will cost from the accredited builder, Brick ‘n Board.”
“Three-bedroom, 3 bathroom The Residences homes are priced from R3.140m. A luxurious and fully furnished The Residences show house is available for viewing.” Contact Shaun Harris 082 956 0599 or the Sales Centre 021 201 7337, sales@sitari.co.za, rentals@sitari.co.za or visit www.sitari.co.za Read more articles