Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate is situated at the gateway to the Walker Bay wine region outside Hermanus. Not so long ago, people were doing the rain dance. Now that the vines are pushing out leaves, people are also taking on the trek over the mountains in search of the best spot to soak up those early rays of Spring. It was always envisioned as a destination that will cater to all, from your wine lover, fine dining patron to adventure seekers. Those craving a platter laden with delicious treats, tea drinkers, sweet tooth’s and even pizza-hunters will leave thoroughly satisfied. Whether you’d like to visit to indulge in your culinary cravings or to see the kids and dogs having a blast, Benguela Cove has certainly grown to become a one stop destination. In fact, it’s the coolest destination the young patrons would say because mateys, they are kicking off Spring Day with an aye and an arrr! And, it’s for a good cause! Families are invited for a fun day, playing a round of Pirate Adventure Golf whilst greeted with the perfect view of the Bot River Lagoon and the Atlantic Ocean. Come dressed in pirate gear and tackle the 18-hole adventure course. On the way you will encounter pirates and obstacles including a pirate ship, streams, rafts, a waterfall and a giant skull.  Yet, mom and dad will certainly not be forgotten. While the youngsters are working up an appetite for seriously delicious hamburgers, the adults can sit back on the viewing deck, sipping on Benguela Cove wines like the latest release of the Lighthouse Rosé 2018. This wine is the perfect pairing for spring – lively and versatile with notes of florals and red berries.
Luckily there is more cold wine where that bottle came from. Stock up in their tasting room and join in for a pontoon cruise. In celebration of tourism month, no one will make you walk the money plank. These 75 minute cruises will be offered as a complimentary service from 10 September until 10 October. How cool is that! Trips onboard Lady Bonnie will leave on a daily time schedule between 08:30 and 16:30, Wednesdays to Sundays. Please note the boat is licensed to carry only 12 persons at a time. The skipper will transport you across the lagoon where you will have the chance to wander on a beautiful white beach that separates our estate from the Atlantic Ocean. Check in an hour before your boat trip and stock up some drinks and wines from their cellar door. Right of admission reserved. Contact Benguela Cove on 083 645 6198 email info@benguelacove.co.za or visit www.benguelacove.co.za Read more articles