The Newspaper recently visited the Benguela Brasserie & Restaurant, located at the five-star Lakeside Lodge & Spa, near Sedgefield. For wonderful food in a beautiful lakeside setting – whether breakfast, lunch or dinner – Benguela Brasserie & Restaurant is the perfect choice. The venue has a growing reputation as one of the leading Garden Route restaurants, popular for its imaginative and varied menu. The venue also host wine tastings, food pairings and other special events throughout the year. On Thursdays the Executive Chef, Kelly-Anne Pietersen with a history in culinary art presents her mouth-watering selection of curries to the enjoyment of the guests.
The chill of a passing winter still in the air with the approaching spring, makes Thursday evenings still the best time to enjoy the flavours of curry on offer at Benguela Brasserie & Restaurant until the end of September. Three flavoured dishes, Butter chicken curry, Cape Malay lamb curry, and a red Thai prawn curry are prepared and may be enjoyed as a single dish of choice, or a trio of curry can be served. Chef Kelly-Ann’s selection of curries are complemented with fragrant rice, homemade roti, poppadoms, and a selection of freshly prepared sambals, not to mention the traditional sides, the Onion Bhaji, the Chicken pakora, and the prawn pakora. These well flavoured curry dishes are complimented by the Benguela Cove Shiraz 2015 – a wine with its seductive nose of beautiful rich and ripe fruit flavours, with a hint of pepper, cinnamon and cloves. Lovers of fine dining will find the Chef’s three course dinner menu liberally laced with all the frills as well as a classic touch. Guests are welcomed with an amuse bouche, followed by a choice of starters of which the Pea and Ham soup and the Avo Ritz are favourites. The most satisfying dishes are along the lines of the Braised lamb shank pie, with herbed polenta, peas, and baby marrow; the Grilled fish, with mash potato, crisp calamari, and tempura spinach; and the Beef Sirloin, with butternut puree, croquette, and pickled butternut. The main course is followed by a selection of delicious desserts such as the White chocolate mousse, with hazelnut biscuit, caramel, and berry ice cream; or the Lemon pot au crème chantilly with lemon curd and vanilla ice cream. These dishes were prepared with great detail, reflecting outstanding quality, superb plating and can be highly recommended. Restaurant Opening Hours: Breakfast: Tuesday to Sunday: 8am – 11am Lunch: Tuesday to Sunday: 12pm – 3:30pm | Dinner: Thurs to Saturday: 6pm – 9pm For more information visit www.lakesidelodge.co.za