Minister Debbie Schafer and Minister Donald Grant visited the new R10.2 million Barkly House Pre-Primary School in Newlands – a conversion project that saw the former Newlands Clinic converted to a fully functional pre-primary school for the learners of Barkly House Pre-Primary School, which had previously been accommodated in an old prefabricated structure.
The conversion project commenced in April 2016, and was concluded in October 2017, involving alterations and additions to the existing Newlands Clinic to accommodate the new pre-primary school. The project also saw the construction of 5 new classrooms, Natural Science and block area, Functional/Music Room, and Aftercare room. An integral part of the professional team was lead architects, Ms Rahdia Khatieb Parker, who is an award-winning and leading female architect in her profession. Rahdia is a professional architect who practices as a specialist Interpretation Strategist. Her specialty also includes conceptual mapping and brand interpretation. Rahdia is committed to translating client’s ideas to reality through sensory experience, which has made her the perfect partner in this conversion project. Rahdia is a symbol of passion, drive and success, and is a great example to many young women seeking to make a positive impact not only in the male-dominated built environment profession, but in their country. The Masakh’iSizwe Bursary Programme is a flagship programme that focuses on attracting and facilitating the development and availability of skills identified nationally as scarce and critical, to meet the operational needs of the Department of Transport and Public Works and indeed South Africa as a whole. Masakh’iSizwe bursaries are awarded annually for study disciplines related to a degree, diploma or post graduate studies in the transport, engineering or built environment. The underpinning concept of the bursary programme is to empower financially disadvantaged youth through access to tertiary education. Just this year alone, Masakh’iSizwe has awarded 55 bursaries to talented young females studying at CPUT, UCT, and Stellenbosch University. These young women are studying towards qualifications in the building environment, in fields including civil, mechanical, transportation, and electrical engineering, architecture, mechatronics, property and constructions studies, to name a few. Read more articles