Premium Independent Wineries of South Africa (PIWOSA), well-known internationally for their execution of inventive marketing programmes designed to raise the profile of premium South African wines, will be demonstrating their creative flair, for locals and internationals, here in South Africa for the first time. With a passion for the theatrical, get ready to be enthralled and enchanted by PIWOSA at Cape Wine 2018 at the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) from 12-14 September 2018. Formed in 2013 with full support from Wines of South Africa (WOSA), PIWOSA is a collective of eleven like-minded, dynamic, independent wine producers. Operating as a united force, the members travel extensively, hosting ingenious presentations in targeted export markets to capture attention, re-set opinions and build a positive reputation and increased demand for all premium South African wines. With 76 creative and dynamic events having been executed internationally over the past five years and a further 20 international events already planned for 2019, PIWOSA are looking forward to showcasing #LiquidArt: a programme of innovative events during Cape Wine 2018. Join them at the PIWOSA Cape Wine Stand at the CTICC and be inspired by South Africa’s Liquid Art reaching new heights. Don’t miss The Flight Club, one of PIWOSA’s most successful feats, taking place in South Africa for the first time on 13 September where local sommeliers and wine professionals are invited to take up the challenge and test their skills in a series of blind comparative tastings of premium South African wines versus some of the very best wines in the world. Later that night a spectacular and surreal PIWOSA Party will take place at the Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa (Zeitz MOCAA), a masterpiece of architectural brilliance and a grand repository for thousands of African artworks: an incredible backdrop for a celebration of #LiquidArt. Throw in some outlandish human art – weird and wonderful costumed characters and bizarre performers – and you’ll feel like you’ve stepped into an enchanted wonderland. Here you can enjoy meeting the people behind PIWOSA and indulge in a selection of their best wines. For more information visit www.piwosa.com Read more articles