Known for the best land-based whale watching in the world, Hermanus is just the right place to pay homage to the magnificent Southern Right Whales. And there’s no better time to spot this magnificent mammal than in September which is peak whale-watching season in this coastal village. Over a period of 3 days from 28-30 September 2018 accommodations open their doors, restaurants dish up mouth-watering meals and the residents of Hermanus open their hearts in a warm welcome to visitors. Now in its 28th year the Hermanus Whale Festival, is the oldest and largest festival on the Cape Whale Coast and while the whales are predominantly the star performers at the festival, they will be joined on land by quality entertainers and musicians, an array of food stalls and kiddies activities and events suitable for both the young and old. In a short few years, the Eco-Marine Tent has become firmly established as the Hermanus Whale Festival’s biggest attraction. Popular, informative and entertaining the focused appeal remained to children, adults and anyone who cares about preserving our ocean wildlife. With a wide range of eco & marine-related environmental exhibitions, the aim of the Eco Marine Tent and the Hermanus Whale Festival is to inspire people through informative, colourful, interactive displays, music, arts and food and informative talks by marine biologists and experts. Visitors get to enjoy the unbelievable sightseeing opportunities while getting clued up on the plight of the endangered creatures in the Eco Marine Tent. This year’s complete programme will include land & boat based whale watching, arts and crafts, Street Parade and the Whales and Wheels Classic Car Show. Expect to linger for hours inside the Coke Live Music Marquee, and the Old Harbour Music Arena where various local artists will be performing over the three days of the festival. The festivities will include Marine Mammal & Eco Talks, Festival of Whales Street Parade, shop-till-you-drop stalls, Kiddies Whale of a Beach Clean-up in the Old Harbour and on the Cliff Path, kiddies movies and entertainment. The very popular Pirate & Mermaid Treasure Hunt will this year have two tablets as give-away prizes! Everyone who plays wins a prize! Join the thousands of people who will once again celebrate the fun in the sun during the family-friendly Hermanus Whale Festival. Read more articles