Lourensford has recently released its stylish The Dome range in South Africa. Consisting of a Chardonnay and Pinot Noir, the range was originally developed for overseas clientele but the immediate success of it prompted Lourensford to also introduce it in locally. “The Dome is one of those fairy tale brands” says Koos Jordaan, GM of Lourensford. “Hannes Nel, Lourensford’s Cellarmaster, worked closely with the client determining the style of wine. When the issue of a brand name came up Hannes suggested the Dome, referring to the highest peak of the Helderberg Mountain Range that overlooks the estate. It just made logical sense considering some of Lourensford’s top vineyards are planted on the higher slopes of the Helderberg. The style, quality, name and packaging just works so well together and it immediately drew positive reaction from trade and customers.” Nel says: “We are so blessed that our 98ha of vineyards are spread over an area of more than 700 ha, all with different soil types, aspects and micro-climates. This of course is a tremendous benefit for a winemaker, since we have a selection of building blocks to blend the wine to exactly what we want.” The Dome Chardonnay is a perfect expression of a classic Chardonnay with ripe pineapple, melon and orange blossom flavours on the nose, supported by hints of lemon cream, grapefruit and dried apricots. Flavours of white peach, cashew nuts and caramel linger on the pallet. The wine has a brilliant linear acidity and dominant dense core with layered sweetness due to the natural fermentation. The roundness on the pallet and a beautifully integrated texture supported by a creamy finish coats your mouth and make you want to spend more time in the presence of this big wine. The Dome Pinot noir is bright ruby-red in colour. There are aromas of fresh, ripe cherries with an undertone of well-used leather on the nose. On the pallet the wine has a silken texture and gamey complexity. Best served slightly chilled and suitable for pairing with most fish dishes like salmon and tuna, the wine can also accompany chicken, duck and venison. The 2017 Pinot noir has been awarded 2 gold medals at the prestigious Michelangelo competition and the Vitis Vinifera Wine Awards. The Dome Chardonnay costs R135 and The Dome Pinot Noir costs R170, both wines are available at the tasting room or online from Lourensford.co.za.
The two wines can also be found at selected wine shops and restaurants in the Cape Town area. Lourensford Wine Estate is a feast for the senses and worth a day outing in the winelands. With another bumper holiday season lined up, don’t miss their Festive market kicking off on Friday, 30 November from 16h00. This will continue on Saturday, 1 December and Sunday, 2 December from 10h00 – 15h00. Why not gather your family or friends and enjoy the beauty of Lourensford? Whether it is a stroll through the lavish gardens, a coffee at the Coffee Roasting company, lunch at the Millhouse Kitchen or a yoga or spa session at Life Retreat, there is something for everyone.
The Tasting room offers a variety of tasting experiences of which the chocolate and wine pairing is the most popular. For the connoisseur, there is a tasting of Lourensford’s top white and red wines, the Chrysalis, or a selection of four wines of your choice. For more information, contact the Tasting room at 021 847 2300 or visit www.lourensford.co.za Read More Articles