As with fine food and premium wines, so too fine art needs to be experienced to be appreciated. Visitors to Franschhoek can once again look forward to a month of artworks and exhibitions, as Art Franschhoek ‘opens it doors’ to the public from 27 October to 25 November 2018. Over the years the valley has established itself as one of the country’s premier art destinations with its numerous art galleries and resident artists. Art enthusiasts can choose to leisurely browse the galleries situated along the village’s main road, alternatively choose to view the artworks on display at some of the wine farms, which include Grande Provence and La Motte. Garden and art tours at Leeu Estate add an extra touch to your cultural outing. The month of Art Franschchoek celebrates these artists, and allows visitors to experience this unique part of Franschhoek. To celebrate the start of this festival of art appreciation some of the participating galleries will be hosting special events during the weekend of 27 – 28 October. One of the highlights during the weekend includes a special wheel throwing demonstration by well-renowned ceramicist, David Walters. The world renowned Everard Read Gallery will be exhibiting major works by some of our country’s finest contemporary artists, in a variety of media.
Manzart Gallery is the venue for Marie Stander’s solo exhibition. Marie, who has a large and fast growing following throughout South Africa’s collector community, is best known for her figurative charcoal drawings, large scale portraits, group drawings, as well as near life size drawings. Magnificent sculptures by self-taught, instinctual sculptor, Bruce Little, will be on display at Franschhoek Cellars. Bruce sculpts to capture the spirit of the wild African creatures he has observed and guarded most of his life. Ebony/Curated, with its exquisite displays of fine arts, sculptures and ceramics, will host three solo exhibitions in their respective galleries. Embark on a journey of art discovery as you admire one of South Africa’s greatest masters, Jacob Hendrik Pierneef, at the La Motte Museum, with his Ink on Paper exhibition. For more information visit www.franschhoek.org.za Read more articles