Norval Foundation is set to become Cape Town’s new outdoor destination for foodies and families with the launch of its Sculpture Garden picnics on International Garden Day 21 October. Picnic baskets will be available from The Skotnes Restaurant Kiosk all summer long. Specifically created by Chef Phil de Villiers with families in mind, picnic baskets can be ordered in advance, and the price includes admission to Norval Foundation’s museum and gallery spaces, as well as the extensive Sculpture Garden. Sculptures such as the Angus Taylor ‘Holderbestolder’ made from Belfast Gabbro granite and steel form the perfect climbing playground for young children to explore while parents enjoy a relaxed picnic. The sculpture was made with consultation from a child psychologist and is centrally placed in the kiddies play area. Expect to find baskets brimming with fresh, local and seasonal produce in keeping with The Skotnes Restaurant’s philosophy of supporting local, small-batch food suppliers. Take-away coffees and a delicious range of Italian gelato can also be ordered to enjoy while exploring the Sculpture Garden. Specially designed picnic bags for children will also ensure that little ones can enjoy their very own picnic. There will also be a range of fun activities to partake in, including balloon sculpting, face-painting and a magician. “Our family-friendly picnics are one of the elements at Norval Foundation I am most excited about,” says The Skotnes Executive Chef, Phil De Villiers. Garden Day, 21 October 2018 – Norval Foundation Sculpture Garden picnic launch Enjoy your choice of classic or gourmet picnic in the sculpture gardens while listening to relaxing music. Whether you order in advance or buy your picnic at Norval Foundation, the price of the hamper includes free access to the Norval Foundation galleries on the day. Picnic baskets start at R320 for two people sharing and will feature gourmet options such as Bobotie samosas, Roosterbrood with smoked snoek pâté and soet patat hummus, Raspberry Hertzoggies and a range of desserts created by in-house Pastry Chef, Isca Scholtz. Visit the Norval Foundation website or mail bookings@theskotnes.com to secure your picnic booking. Read more articles