The City of Cape Town is set to host the annual International Film Market and Festival at the V&A Waterfront from 9 to 19 October 2018. This important event will create opportunities for the film industry and contribute to the local economy. The theme of this year’s event is ‘Create, collaborate and celebrate.’ Various programmes over the course of the festival will concentrate on unlocking opportunities for emerging talent and bringing together various role-players within the industry. ‘The festival is an excellent platform to showcase the diverse cultures within our society. The City remains committed to playing a part in the growth of the film industry which is an important economic investment catalyst. ‘It’s important for the City, together with the Cape Town International Film Market and Festival (CTIFMF), to ensure opportunities for local talent, entrepreneurs and SMMEs to play their part and contribute towards the ‘production line’ within the industry. The local economy has a lot to offer in terms of services as well as products and it’s important that other growth sectors within Cape Town’s economy, such as tourism, be linked to what the film industry has to offer,’  said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security; and Social Services, Alderman JP Smith. The short film genre will take centre stage as it plays a key role as an entry point for upcoming industry talent. By collaborating on these films, budding filmmakers, scriptwriters and others get to showcase their storytelling skill and hone their craft. Attendees will have to opportunity to choose from some 61 short films that will be screened during the festival. ‘To support an event of this calibre reaffirms the City of Cape Town’s commitment to contributing towards an environment that will maximize the growth potential of the industry as well as unlocking opportunities and ultimately contributing to the local economy,’ added Alderman Smith. In addition to the many shows and programmes on offer, the Writers’ Guild of South Africa, in collaboration with CTIFMF, will again present a scriptwriting  programme for feature films and other projects. The festival concludes on Friday 19 October 2018 with a gala awards dinner. Among the award categories is the ‘Most Patriotic SA Arts Industry Ambassador Award’ which will recognise a South African performer who has walked the extra mile in being an ambassador for Brand South Africa. For more information on the festival’s 80 feature films, 20 documentaries and 61 short films, please visit www.filmfestival.capetown. Read more articles