Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate is still a hidden gem for many who pass this beautiful property outside Hermanus en route to their holiday destinations up the coast. On the doorstep of the sought after Walker Bay region, this working wine and olive farm opens its arms to daily visitors and to those with a dream to settle there permanently in a secure environment. Here are the answers to a couple of general enquiries: Q: How old is the estate? A: It started in 2003, but Penny Streeter OBE bought the whole estate in 2013. She has taken on a mammoth task to build a tourism destination. Attractions include a wine cellar, Moody Lagoon Restaurant, wine tasting, conference and wedding facilities and adventure golf. And, there is more to come. Q: Who are the developers? A: Streeter and Nick Rea have a formidable partnership and they are serious about creating sustainable brands that portrays the essence of innovative ideas, class and quality. Q: We heard a boutique hotel is also on the cards at Benguela Cove? A: True. The architects have been commissioned to design a five star lodge, including a spa, which will consist of 40 luxury self-catering villas, all in keeping with the estate’s strict design guidelines. Q: How many properties are still available? A: Of the total 124 stands, there are 57 left for sale, all fully serviced with water, plumbing and electricity connections. If you buy from the developer, you will have 24 months to commence building. Q: What are the price ranges? A: Prices start at R2.6m for around 2000sqm and goes up to R6.5m for 4280sqm. The average price is R3.7m for roughly 2000sqm, which includes VAT, so no transfer fees are payable on top of this price. Owners also receive an annual wine allocation. Q: What other amenities are there to enjoy here? A: The Bot River Lagoon frontage makes it ideal for water-sports and boating. It is a family friendly environment with an 11km running and cycling track along the lagoon and through the vineyards, tennis courts, clubhouse and a swimming pool for everyone to enjoy. For more information on Properties for sale: Dinita Hewett: 028 313 0390, 082 898 4519 email: dinita.hewett@seeff.com or General enquiries about estate visits, bookings and activities: 083 645 6198 Read more articles